Now that we have our sign in with Google button we actually have no way of knowing inside of our application
whether or not our sign was successful with Google.
But we can tell that our user was added to our Firebase and authenticated.
When we go back to our firebase console in our authentication if we click this user's tab we'll see
this list of users.
And right there that user is the one that we just logged in with with our sign and with Google so we
know that it's working and work getting authenticated.
Now how do we actually add this into our application so that our application is aware that those changes
are happening while firebase gives us a really easy way to do that.
So let's go back to our application and let's go to our app J.S. inside of our app.
Yes what we want to do is we want to first import in off from our firebase utilize so let's import off
firebase dash firebase utilize.
And what we want to write is we want to actually store the state of our user in our app right.
So when a user logs in using whatever service we use whether it's Google sign in or email and password
we want to store that on the App State so that we can pass it into components that need it because we
want to access our current user object throughout our application.
So what we'll do is we'll convert our app over to a class component so we can have access to state
and we'll put this return inside of our render
and now everything will work the same we'll just add our constructor call our super and call this dot
state equals an object where current user is no to properly understand what firebase auth gives us we
have to understand the concept of a subscription.
So normally how we fetched data before is we inside of our component did mount method component did
mount where used to firing a fetch to the back end to fetch data.
But this is only a one off thing.
Once the code calls fetch it won't call fetch again until a component did mount lifecycle method gets
called again but we don't want to remount our app we just want to always know when firebase has realized
that the authentication state has changed.
So whenever somebody signs in when everybody somebody signs out we want to be aware of that change without
having to manually fetch firebase actually gives us that really easily.
So when we call off dot on off state changed this is a method.
On the off library that we get from firebase right firebase off and then this off inside what it takes
is a function where the parameter is what the user state is of the.
Off on our firebase project and our callback inside we're going to call this dot set state where we're
setting current user to that user object so let's log it out as well.
Just to see what it looks like now when we go back to our application and we open up our console we
actually see that this is our user the one that we just signed in with with Google.
So because our application earlier when we selected sign with Google it's already stored that user and
it knows that this application that's making that request has not yet signed out.
So that's why we're still seeing the object even though our app refreshed when we saved our app that
J asked just now firebase is still aware that this was the last user right that got signed in with.
And this is a really cool feature that we get from firebase right out the box user authenticate authenticated
session persistence.
This is actually a setting that you can change in firebase which we will definitely explore in a later
lesson.
But right now I want to focus on the basics of Firebase because there's so much for us just to understand
what firebase can do for us but this feature is awesome because if you think about it we don't actually
want our user to have to resign in whenever we either refresh our page where we see we're still getting
now our user or if we close the window right.
Without ever signing out and then come back to our application and again we get that user object from
firebase which is great for us because then we can decide what to do with it right.
Because we know that our user is still the same.
And firebase is aware because it keeps track of all the instances of the application that are open and
communicating it with it so it knows that.
OK.
User came from this instance of the application before and they never signed out.
So I'm just gonna assume that they're still signed in.
And because of our subscriber here our subscriptions always listening to the off the authors like oh
I'm going to send them that user authenticated object every time until they sign out.
So this is a really great feature because this is essentially how we're able to get persistence of our
user sessions without having to setup all this complicated stuff that it would normally require for
us to get this.
But let's look back at the actual user authenticated object that we're getting back from Firebase and
on this we just want to ignore a lot of these values because we don't need them because it's a Google
user object it has a lot of stuff but the main one we want to look at is display name and email.
So we know this is that user that we just go.
And the great thing about this is that now we have oh off so easily right out the gate all off essentially
allows users to sign in with any other third party service that they might already have.
And by doing this we've reduced the barrier of entry for allowing users to sign into our application
because they don't have to actually go through an arduous sign up process or remember their email and
password for our app.
They can just use sign and with Google a lot sign and is actually a very tedious and difficult thing
to set up from scratch.
But by using firebase we got access to it with just a couple configurations and that's why firebase
is such an incredible platform.
Now the next thing we have to do is actually understand why this is an open subscription.
So this opens subscription.
It's an open messaging system between our application and our firebase at whenever any changes occur
on firebase from any source related to this application.
Firebase sends out that a message that says that the off status change the user has updated whether
they've signed in through some service such as our Google sign or our email and password sign up or
they've signed out and then they will give us this user and it will call it.
So we don't actually have to manually fetch every time we want to check if that status changed.
This connection is always open as long as our application component is mounted on our job but because
it's an open subscription we also have to close subscriptions when this on mounts because we don't want
any memory leaks in our javascript application.
So how we do that is we would call a new method called unsubscribe from off which by default is equal
to nil.
So we're setting a property called unsubscribe from off on our class and then we're going to say this
equals off dot on off state changed which gives us back a function that when we call closes the script
subscription.
Right.
And we want to close it whenever our component on mounts.
So in this new lifecycle method component will on Mount.
We want to call this dot unsubscribe from off and that will close the subscription and this is pretty
much how we handle our application being aware of any auth changes on firebase.
I know it's very conceptual and if you understand that's awesome if you don't that's perfectly fine
it will make sense the more you do it.